# Android Studio "New Project" Original Templates 

This repository contains copies of the original templates used by Android Studio when creating a new project.

The templates included are:

- `NoActivity`
- `EmptyActivity`
- `BasicViewsActivity`
- `BottomNavigationViewsActivity`
- `EmptyViewsActivity`
- `NavigationDrawerViewsActivity`
- `ResponsiveViewsActivity`

<screenshot of "new project" window here>

**Note:** The two C++ templates are not included.

**Last updated: 2024-02-11**

## Rationale

The purpose of this repository is to keep copies of them, so that you can use
them even if you don't have Android Studio installed. 

For instance, some developers prefer a minimal setup, which doesn't include a
full-blown IDE: It is possible to develop Android apps using just the Android
SDK (maybe including the device emulator) and a terminal text editor, such as
Vim or Emacs.

Unfortunately, the "New Project" templates are not available as a standalone
CLI tool. They are not easily accessible from the Android Studio source code
either. So you pretty much need to have Android Studio installed to get them.
The aim of this repository is to provide them in a standalone form.

## Usage

To use this repository, simply clone it:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/android-studio-templates.git
```

You will find one folder for each template, containing the files as would be
generated by Android Studio, with minimal changes (see below). Each of these
folders is a standalone Android project, which can be build with Gradle and
run on an Android device or emulator.

## Template Information

The templates were generated with the following settings:

<screenshot of "settings" window here>

- Android Studio version: 2023.1.1 (Latest at the time of writing)
- Language: Kotlin
- Minimum SDK: API 25, Android 7.1.1 (Lowest SDK version with over 95%
  coverage)
- Build Configuration Language: Kotlin DSL.

The following superfluous files and folders were removed:
- `local.properties` (only relevant for use with Android Studio)
- `.idea` (only relevant for use with Android Studio)
- `.gradle` (build system cache)

## Update Policy

I personally vow to keep this repository up to date as new versions of Android
Studio are released. This is achievable through the use of an uncomitted script
which tests and diffs the templates as new versions are released.

## CLI

This repo also comes with a simple CLI tool written in Bash:

```
Usage: ./android-new-project <template-name> <project-name>
       ./android-new-project --list/-l
       ./android-new-project --help/-h

  - <template-name> is the name of the template you want to use.
  - <project-name> is the name of the project you want to create. A folder
    with this name will be created in the current directory, and the template
    files will be copied into it.
  - --list/-l will list the available templates.
  - --help/-h prints this help.
```

If you want to install it system-wide, simply run `make install`.

Indeed, you can add or modify templates in your local copy of this
repository, and they would be available to the CLI tool too.
